Let's take a look at OneDrive in Windows 10.
Now OneDrive is one of the great conveniences in Windows 10 because,
for instance, if you're using a Microsoft account in Windows 10,
you're already authenticated to your associated OneDrive.
The OneDrive client is already up and running in all likelihood,
you'll notice if I open my notification menu it says OneDrive,
and the little cloud icon is dimmed because I'm not signed in.
If I right-click and go to Settings,
let's see if there's anything worthwhile here.
Start OneDrive automatically when I sign in to Windows,
and then Add an account and choose the folders involved.
Well first we have to add an account,
and that kicks off the Set up OneDrive wizard.
Now the difference between OneDrive and OneDrive for Business is going to
depend upon whether this is just a consumer Microsoft account,
or if it's associated with an Office 365 tenet.
Tim@azuredepot.
com is part of an Office 365 Enterprise subscription,
so by definition it's going to be OneDrive for Business.
So I'm signing in.
Now by default, that folder's going to come in in your home folder.
So I'm logged on as trainer, so it's C:\Users\trainer\OneDrive,
and then in my case -Office 365.
But if I don't have a lot of space on drive C,
or if I otherwise want to change its location,
that's perfectly okay.
Maybe I want to put it on drive D.
So now I'm at D:\OneDrive - Office 365.
Click Next.
Now it's viewing what's in my OneDrive on the web,
or in the Microsoft fabric, and we can be selective on what we want.
My Office 365 email Attachments folder,
and then loose files that are not in a folder are selected.
I have very little up there as you see.
Click Next.
And as we're waiting here,
it gives us little animation that shows we can drag
and drop into the OneDrive folder.
We can share those folders using the OneDrive web client,
or from within an Office app, and then of course we have the iOS,
Android, and Windows Phone mobile app.
And then finally Open my OneDrive folder, and there it is.
And we see what's called a toast notification appear in the
lower right that we're now syncing that folder,
and we can edit the content of that folder.
That's fine.
So here it comes.
I had some loose files in there, and I can work,
as I said before, using the navigation or directly in the window.
I can operate on my OneDrive for Business account
exactly as I would any other folder.
So I'll create a folder called Projects,
and I'll create a simple document by right-clicking.
I'll create a Text Document called kickoff,
and I'll just add some generic text to it.
I'll close, and of course save my changes.
So that's all well and good.
We now see I have my OneDrive Office 365.
It's showing up as Up to date, and if I right-click,
I have a whole bunch of options here.
If I have a large volume of files that are syncing and perhaps
slowing down the performance of my computer,
I can pause that syncing for a while, I can manage my storage,
I can view the folder online.
Actually, let's choose that.
That's a convenient method.
As I said, OneDrive for Business goes to SharePoint Online,
so I'm going to need to authenticate again with my Office 365 account,
and I'm going to stay signed in because this is my computer and I'm
even comfortable saving my credentials in Edge.
If you look at the address bar here, it says https://azuredepot,
that's the name of my Office 365 tenet, my.
sharepoint.
com.
So that demonstrates the truth that Office 365 and SharePoint
Online is inextricably interwoven with OneDrive.
Now, you can do that, that is to say OneDrive for Business,
even as an ordinary consumer.
I'm going to do a search for OneDrive plans,
and we'll browse out to the Plans page.
This is a Software as a Service, or SaaS, offering.
This URL is in the exercise files by the way, not that you necessarily need it.
And over on the right here, the two consumer plans,
you have the free, which is 5 GB, it's called OneDrive Basic.
All you need to get started with that is a Microsoft account,
and then you go through the same process of running Set
up OneDrive and you'll get that done.
Let me just try that.
I have a consumer account under a different email address.
Let me see what happens if we go down that path.
I have two-factor authentication on this account,
and I think that that's something you should have as well.
Now notice here this is a personal OneDrive,
so it's going under C:\Users\trainer\OneDrive.
I'm going to leave that location alone.
We'll click Next.
Well,
this is an advertisement really saying that we can go to
OneDrive for Business with Premium features,
but I'll choose Not now.
And just for grins,
we'll step through the wizard until we can open my OneDrive folder.
And so the consumer OneDrive,
notice that it shows up in the navigation bar as OneDrive - Personal by default,
I have a lot more content in here actually,
and they give you a bunch of folders like Favorites,
Music,
Photos that very much mirror what you have in your
home folder on your local system.
You see what I mean?
So to round this out, we have the 2 personal plans,
there's the Storage only that give you 50 GB,
and then if you go to OneDrive for Business,
even as an individual you can do that,
there's Office 365 Personal and Office 365 Home.
It looks like that the Personal there's just one user, and home you're given five users.